**My Story**

I’m a web developer in the San Francisco Bay Area. I specialize in JavaScript,
Ruby, and Rails, as well as HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery. I’m passionate about best
practices, security, and performance, and I enjoy making web apps that are
beautiful, fast, secure, and a joy to use. I have experience coding for the
backend with Rails and Node.js, as well as with relational databases. I also
have done a significant amount of development on the frontend, building
responsive, single-page web apps with the latest frontend technologies. I've
worked professionally as a developer, both coding and interacting with
customers. I can thrive in a professional development environment, using
project-management software, version control, and other best practice
techniques. I'm passionate about writing clean, concise code, upholding security
and performance best practices, and implementing elegant solutions.

I started out programming in the PHP world a few years back, as well as studying
Java, object-oriented design, and web development at Berkeley City College. In
addition to working on backend projects with PHP and SQL, I also worked hard to
become proficient on the frontend with HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript. I've
particularly spent a lot of time studying and using JavaScript on projects, both
personally and professionally. I love working with JavaScript and building
awesome web apps with tools like jQuery and frameworks like Backbone.js.

I worked for over a year at a development agency called Kalamuna, which
specializes in building PHP and Drupal-based apps and sites. There, I helped
develop solutions for non-profits, universities, and small businesses. I also
helped develop the first version of the company's flagship open-source product
Kalabox, a Node.js, HTML5, and Knockout.js-powered Mac app for installing and
managing a Drupal development environment built on Vagrant and Virtualbox. An
auspicious undertaking conceived by one of Kalamuna's cofounders, the project
has recently gone open-source and raised over $30,000 on Kickstarter to fund
version 2.0. Helping with version 1.0 of Kalabox was one of the most technically
challenging and rewarding projects I've worked on, requiring me to develop a
Node.js backend that communicated with the underlying OS and controlled the
virtualized server. I also helped develop the HTML5 and Bootstrap 3 UI that
communicated with the Node backend via websockets. This project is a highlight
of my career thus far and gave me the opportunity to delve deep into JavaScript.

Recently, I decided to transition out of the PHP world and venture into the
exciting realm of Ruby and Rails. To get up-to-speed with those technologies, as
well as to take my coding skills to the next level, I took the bootcamp-style
course at App Academy in January, 2014. After excelling in the course, I became
a full-time teacher's assistant at The Academy, improving my understanding of
Ruby and Rails, as well as my explanatory prowess, through teaching and guiding
new developers through the course's material and projects. While I'm newer to
Ruby and Rails than to PHP and JavaScript, I have a passion for Ruby as a
beautiful programming language and Rails as a framework overflowing with best
practices and RESTful design. I consider Ruby to be my second favorite
programming language to worth with, after JavaScript.

In my spare time, I'm currently studying Node.js, AngularJS, and frontend
performance profiling.

**My Projects**

Heapsort.io (GitHub)

My final project at App Academy, Heapsort is the realization of a dream I've
long had to make an app for developers to find and share web development and
programming resources. Think of it as similar to Reddit, but specifically for
programmers. It's a single-page, Backbone.js based app with a Rails JSON API
backend, featuring the use of technologies including Backbone.Marionette,
Browserify, Sass, Grunt, Bootstrap3 and much more. It features browsing
resources sorted by popularity, updating and downvoting resources, and posting
resources. Over the years, I've collected hundreds of links to articles, videos,
and other resources on many technologies. I seeded Heapsort with 1,700+
resources, making it a valuable collection from the start.

Zasteroids (GitHub)

While I don't consider myself a game developer, I do enjoy coding simple, fun
games. Zasteroids started out as a day long project at App Academy in which a
partner and I coded the base functionality using simple circles. Later on, I got
the idea that giving it a zombie twist would make for a fun, humorous
experience. So I took it from a simple proof-of-concept exercise and added
graphics and animations. The game is entirely HTML5 canvas-based, with an
object-oriented JavaScript codebase orchestrating the zombies and taking input
from the player. I used the opportunity to try out some best-practice frontend
techniques, including requestAnimationFrame, time-based animation, and object
pooling. I also had a lot of fun with applying mathematical concepts to enable
various interactions, including changing the ships trajectory, detecting
collisions, and having the zombies constantly rotate to always stare ominously
at the player.

ChatHappy (GitHub)

After studying and using Backbone.js extensively, I decided the next front-end
framework I wanted to investigate is AngularJS. I found that I really like
two-way databinding support from my days using Knockout, and I appreciated
Angular's testable and modular design. I also wanted some more practice with
developing a realtime web app based on Node.js and websockets. Therefore, I
chose to write a chatting application featuring support for multiple rooms. I
modeled the backend as a chat manager coordinating user objects and chat room
objects, with each socket connection managed by a user object. I set up a
similar system on the frontend, using Angular services to manage the user, chat
rooms, and socket connections. I built several custom Angular directives to
create a modular, clean UI for sending and viewing messages, as well as joining,
creating, and switching rooms.

For more info on these projects, as well as others, see my portfolio site.

**What I'm Looking For**

My term as a teacher's assistant at App Academy will be over at the beginning of
October, so I'm looking to transition to a full-time developer position. I'm
hoping to work in a small team of developers with whom I can collaborate and
learn from. I want to work on projects that utilize my favorite technologies and
my current skills, but that also push me to continually learn new things.

I'm open to many possibilities, though I'm particularly interested in companies
innovating in the health, education, and web technology sectors. Working on
projects that I am passionate about is an important factor, and so is working in
a cooperative, team-driven environment.
